@c ***
@c ***	CONFIGURATION
@c ***
@node Configuration
@appendix Configuration
@cindex configuration
@cindex mydns.conf
@cindex variables, configuration
The @file{mydns.conf} file has a simple, familiar format.  It consists
of lines that may contain variables and values, in the format

@example
@i{variable} = @i{value}
@end example

Blank lines are allowed.  The @samp{#} character begins comments, which
are ignored.

The @option{--dump-config} option of the @command{mydns} program will output
all possible variables in @file{mydns.conf} format.  (@xref{Creating mydns.conf}.)

Boolean values can be @samp{yes}, @samp{no}, @samp{1}, @samp{0}, @samp{on}, or @samp{off}.

@menu
* Database options::  Database configuration.
* General options::   Name daemon configuration.
* Cache options::     Cache configuration.
* Misc options::      Miscellaneous configuration options.
@end menu


@c *** (config) Database
@node Database options
@section Database configuration
@cindex database, configuration
@cindex configuration, database
@cindex db-host
@cindex db-user
@cindex db-password
@cindex database

@table @var
@item db-host
@i{(string)}  The hostname where your database server is located.  May be overridden by the
@option{-h} (@option{--host}) command-line option.

@item db-user
@i{(string)}  The username to provide to the database server during authentication.  May be
overridden by the @option{-u} (@option{--user}) command-line option.

@item db-password
@i{(string)}  The password to provide to the database server during authentication.  May be
overridden by the @option{-p} (@option{--password}) command-line option.

@item database
@i{(string)}  The name of the database containing DNS data.
@end table


@c *** (config) General options
@node General options
@section Name daemon configuration
@cindex daemon, configuration
@cindex configuration, daemon
@cindex user
@cindex group
@cindex listen
@cindex no-listen
@cindex port number

@table @var
@item user
@i{(string)}  Run with the permissions of this user. 

@item group
@i{(string)}  Run with the permissions of this group. 

@item listen
@i{(string)}  Listen and accept requests on this address only.  If this is @samp{*},
the server will accept connections on all addresses.  This must be an IP address
in numbers-and-dots format, or @samp{*}.  Multiple addresses may be specified,
as a comma-delimited list of addresses or on separate @samp{listen} lines.  To
specify a port other than port 53, append @samp{:@i{port}} to the address.

@item no-listen
@i{(string)}  Do @i{not} listen on this address.  This must be an IP address
in numbers-and-dots format, or @samp{*}.  Multiple addresses may be specified,
as a comma-delimited list of addresses or on separate @samp{no-listen} lines.  To
specify a port other than port 53, append @samp{:@i{port}} to the address.  This
option may be used to easily tell MyDNS not to listen on the address @samp{127.0.0.1},
on which you are running a recursive name server.


@end table

@c *** (config) Cache options
@node Cache options
@section Cache configuration
@cindex cache, configuration
@cindex configuration, cache
@cindex zone-cache-size
@cindex zone-cache-expire
@cindex reply-cache-size
@cindex reply-cache-expire

@table @var
@item zone-cache-size
@i{(integer)}  The number of items stored in the DNS server's internal zone data cache.
Set this to @samp{0} to disable the zone data cache entirely.  (@xref{Caching}.)

@item zone-cache-expire
@i{(integer)}  Number of seconds after which cached items expire.  If this is @samp{0}, the
zone data cache is not used.  The TTL value for any RR may override this value if it is
a shorter amount of time.  (@xref{Caching}.)

@item reply-cache-size
@i{(integer)}  The number of items stored in the DNS server's internal reply cache.
Set this to @samp{0} to disable the reply cache entirely.  (@xref{Caching}.)

@item reply-cache-expire
@i{(integer)}  Number of seconds after which cached replies expire.  If this is @samp{0}, the
reply cache is not used. (@xref{Caching}.)
@end table


@c *** (config) Esoterica
@node Misc options
@section Miscellaneous configuration options.
@cindex misc, configuration
@cindex configuration, misc
@cindex log
@cindex pidfile
@cindex timeout
@cindex multicpu
@cindex servers
@cindex recursive
@cindex recursive-timeout
@cindex recursive-retries
@cindex recursive-algorithm
@cindex allow-axfr
@cindex allow-tcp
@cindex allow-update
@cindex ignore-minimum
@cindex soa-table
@cindex rr-table
@cindex use-soa-active
@cindex use-rr-active
@cindex notify-enabled
@cindex notify-source
@cindex notify-source6
@cindex notify-timeout
@cindex notify-retries
@cindex notify-algorithm
@cindex ixfr-enabled
@cindex ixfr-gc-enabled
@cindex ixfr-gc-interval
@cindex ixfr-gc-delay
@cindex extended-data-support
@cindex dbengine
@cindex soa-where
@cindex rr-where
@cindex wildcard-recursion
@cindex debug-<module>

@table @var
@item log
@i{(string)} The name daemon should log via the syslog facility specified,
which may be @samp{LOG_DAEMON} or any of @samp{LOG_LOCAL0} through
@samp{LOG_LOCAL7}.  If the argument is @samp{stderr} or @samp{stdout},
program output will go to that stream only.  If the argument is a
filename, program output will go to that file.

@item pidfile
@i{(string)}  The @command{mydns} program will write its PID to this file on startup.

@item timeout
@i{(integer)}  Number of seconds after which queries should time out.

@item multicpu
@i{(integer)}  Number of processors in your system. - deprecated use servers instead.

@item servers
@i{(integer)}  Number of server processors to run. Set this to @samp{0} to run just a single process,
@samp{1} will run a master and a server process. @samp{n} runs @i{n} servers plus a master.
It is recommended that this be set to the number of CPUS time 2 plus 1.

@item recursive
@i{(string)}  Forward recursive requests to a DNS server at this address
and return its response to the client.

@item recursive-timeout
@i{(integer)} Number of seconds to wait before first retry - default @samp{60}

@item recursive-retries
@i{(integer)} Number of retries before abandoning recursion

@item recursive-algorithm
@i{(string)}  Algorithm to use when applying timeout.
Linear - each timeout is equal to @i{recursive-timeout},
Exponential - double timeout on each retry,
Progressive - increase timeout by number of retries.
Default is @code{linear}.

@item allow-axfr
@i{(boolean)}  Should DNS-based zone transfers be enabled?

@item allow-tcp
@i{(boolean)}  Should TCP queries be allowed?  Use of this option is usually
not recommended.  However, TCP queries should be enabled if you think your
server will be serving out answers larger than 512 bytes.

@item allow-update
@i{(boolean)}  Should RFC 2136 DNS UPDATE queries be allowed?  (@xref{DNS UPDATE}.)

@item ignore-minimum
@i{(boolean)}  Should MyDNS ignore the minimum TTL specified in the SOA
record for each zone?

@item soa-table
@i{(string)}  Name of the table containing SOA records.

@item rr-table
@i{(string)}  Name of the table containing resource record data.

@item use-soa-active
@i{(boolean)} Where there is an soa-active column use this to determine which zones to serve.

@item use-rr-active
@i{(boolean)} Where there is a rr-active column use this to determine which records to serve.

@item notify-enabled
@i{(boolean)} Support DNS NOTIFY message generation if this is enabled.

@item notify-source
@i{(string)} IPv4 address from which NOTIFY messages will be sent - set to @samp{0.0.0.0} or
leave blank for the default of using the outgoing interface address.

@item notify-source6
@i{(string)} IPv6 address from which NOTIFY messages will be sent - set to @samp{::} or
leave blank for the default of using the outgoing interface address.

@item notify-timeout
@i{(integer)} Number of seconds before first retry of NOTIFY message - default @samp{60}.

@item notify-retries
@i{(integer)} Number of times to retry the NOTIFY message before giving up. Default @samp{5}.

@item notify-algorithm
@i{(string)} Select type of notify algorithm to use - select oneof
Linear - each timeout is equal to @i{notify-timeout},
Exponential - double timeout on each retry,
Progressive - increase timeout by number of retries.
Default is @code{linear}.

@item ixfr-enabled
@i{(boolean}) Enable IXFR functionality - requires DB schema change as well.

@item ixfr-gc-enabled
@i{(boolean)} Enable @i{real-time} IXFR garbage collection facility. With this switched on
the server will periodically scan the database for expired records that have been marked
deleted and will remove them from the DB.

@item ixfr-gc-interval
@i{(integer)} Number of seconds between each GC scan. - default 86400 seconds = 1 day.

@item ixfr-gc-delay
@i{(integer}) Number of seconds before first GC scan. - default 600 seconds = 10 minutes.

@item extended-data-support
@i{(boolean)} Switch on support for extended data, this allows large rr data entries needed by large TXT records and other data types.

@item dbengine
@i{(string)} Select default DB engine used when creating MySQL databases. Tested with MyISAM, InnoDB, NDBCLUSTER - default MyISAM.

@item soa-where
@i{(string)}  An additional SQL @samp{WHERE} clause to use when retrieving
records from the @code{soa} table (@pxref{soa table}).

@item rr-where
@i{(string)}  An additional SQL @samp{WHERE} clause to use when retrieving
records from the @code{rr} table (@pxref{rr table}).

@item wildcard-recursion
@i{(integer)} number of ancestor zones to scan for a matching wildcard. default 0.
Use -1 for infinite.

@item debug-<module>
@i{(integer)} debug level for reporting from module selected.

@end table
