\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@comment $Id: mydns.texi,v 1.7 2006/01/18 22:42:14 bboy Exp $
@comment %**start of header
@setfilename mydns.info
@include version.texi
@settitle MyDNS @value{VERSION} reference manual
@syncodeindex pg cp
@paragraphindent 0
@comment %**end of header

@copying
This is the manual for MyDNS (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED})

Copyright @copyright{} 2002-2005 Don Moore.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no
Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section
entitled ``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory System administration
@direntry
* mydns: (mydns)An SQL-based DNS server.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title MyDNS reference manual
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top MyDNS @value{VERSION} reference manual
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::                    A brief introduction to MyDNS.
* Installation::                    Installing MyDNS.
* Database::                        The database and its tables.
* Server::                          The server program and its behavior.
* Utilities::                       Included utilities.

* Troubleshooting::                 Troubleshooting tips.
* Configuration::                   Every configuration variable listed and explained.
* References::                      Other documents you might find useful.

* GNU Free Documentation License::  License for copying this manual.

* Index::                           Index.
@end menu

@include introduction.texi
@include installation.texi
@include database.texi
@include server.texi
@include utilities.texi

@include troubleshooting.texi
@include configuration.texi
@include references.texi

@include fdl.texi


@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye

@comment vi:set ts=3:
