@c ***
@c ***	CONFIGURATION
@c ***
@node Configuration
@appendix Configuration
@cindex configuration
@cindex mydns.conf
@cindex variables, configuration
The @file{mydns.conf} file has a simple, familiar format.  It consists
of lines that may contain variables and values, in the format

@example
@i{variable} = @i{value}
@end example

Blank lines are allowed.  The @samp{#} character begins comments, which
are ignored.

The @option{--dump-config} option of the @command{mydns} program will output
all possible variables in @file{mydns.conf} format.  (@xref{Creating mydns.conf}.)

Boolean values can be @samp{yes}, @samp{no}, @samp{1}, @samp{0}, @samp{on}, or @samp{off}.

@menu
* Database options::  Database configuration.
* General options::   Name daemon configuration.
* Cache options::     Cache configuration.
* Misc options::      Miscellaneous configuration options.
@end menu


@c *** (config) Database
@node Database options
@section Database configuration
@cindex database, configuration
@cindex configuration, database
@cindex db-host
@cindex db-user
@cindex db-password
@cindex database

@table @var
@item db-host
@i{(string)}  The hostname where your database server is located.  May be overridden by the
@option{-h} (@option{--host}) command-line option.

@item db-user
@i{(string)}  The username to provide to the database server during authentication.  May be
overridden by the @option{-u} (@option{--user}) command-line option.

@item db-password
@i{(string)}  The password to provide to the database server during authentication.  May be
overridden by the @option{-p} (@option{--password}) command-line option.

@item database
@i{(string)}  The name of the database containing DNS data.
@end table


@c *** (config) General options
@node General options
@section Name daemon configuration
@cindex daemon, configuration
@cindex configuration, daemon
@cindex user
@cindex group
@cindex listen
@cindex no-listen
@cindex port number

@table @var
@item user
@i{(string)}  Run with the permissions of this user. 

@item group
@i{(string)}  Run with the permissions of this group. 

@item listen
@i{(string)}  Listen and accept requests on this address only.  If this is @samp{*},
the server will accept connections on all addresses.  This must be an IP address
in numbers-and-dots format, or @samp{*}.  Multiple addresses may be specified,
as a comma-delimited list of addresses or on separate @samp{listen} lines.  To
specify a port other than port 53, append @samp{:@i{port}} to the address.

@item no-listen
@i{(string)}  Do @i{not} listen on this address.  This must be an IP address
in numbers-and-dots format, or @samp{*}.  Multiple addresses may be specified,
as a comma-delimited list of addresses or on separate @samp{no-listen} lines.  To
specify a port other than port 53, append @samp{:@i{port}} to the address.  This
option may be used to easily tell MyDNS not to listen on the address @samp{127.0.0.1},
on which you are running a recursive name server.


@end table

@c *** (config) Cache options
@node Cache options
@section Cache configuration
@cindex cache, configuration
@cindex configuration, cache
@cindex zone-cache-size
@cindex zone-cache-expire
@cindex reply-cache-size
@cindex reply-cache-expire

@table @var
@item zone-cache-size
@i{(integer)}  The number of items stored in the DNS server's internal zone data cache.
Set this to @samp{0} to disable the zone data cache entirely.  (@xref{Caching}.)

@item zone-cache-expire
@i{(integer)}  Number of seconds after which cached items expire.  If this is @samp{0}, the
zone data cache is not used.  The TTL value for any RR may override this value if it is
a shorter amount of time.  (@xref{Caching}.)

@item reply-cache-size
@i{(integer)}  The number of items stored in the DNS server's internal reply cache.
Set this to @samp{0} to disable the reply cache entirely.  (@xref{Caching}.)

@item reply-cache-expire
@i{(integer)}  Number of seconds after which cached replies expire.  If this is @samp{0}, the
reply cache is not used. (@xref{Caching}.)
@end table


@c *** (config) Esoterica
@node Misc options
@section Miscellaneous configuration options.
@cindex misc, configuration
@cindex configuration, misc
@cindex log
@cindex pidfile
@cindex timeout
@cindex multicpu
@cindex allow-axfr
@cindex allow-tcp
@cindex allow-update
@cindex ignore-minimum
@cindex soa-table
@cindex rr-table

@table @var
@item log
@i{(string)} The name daemon should log via the syslog facility specified,
which may be @samp{LOG_DAEMON} or any of @samp{LOG_LOCAL0} through
@samp{LOG_LOCAL7}.  If the argument is @samp{stderr} or @samp{stdout},
program output will go to that stream only.  If the argument is a
filename, program output will go to that file.

@item pidfile
@i{(string)}  The @command{mydns} program will write its PID to this file on startup.

@item timeout
@i{(integer)}  Number of seconds after which queries should time out.

@item multicpu
@i{(integer)}  Number of processors in your system.

@item allow-axfr
@i{(boolean)}  Should DNS-based zone transfers be enabled?

@item allow-tcp
@i{(boolean)}  Should TCP queries be allowed?  Use of this option is usually
not recommended.  However, TCP queries should be enabled if you think your
server will be serving out answers larger than 512 bytes.

@item allow-update
@i{(boolean)}  Should RFC 2136 DNS UPDATE queries be allowed?  (@xref{DNS UPDATE}.)

@item ignore-minimum
@i{(boolean)}  Should MyDNS ignore the minimum TTL specified in the SOA
record for each zone?

@item soa-table
@i{(string)}  Name of the table containing SOA records.

@item rr-table
@i{(string)}  Name of the table containing resource record data.

@item soa-where
@i{(string)}  An additional SQL @samp{WHERE} clause to use when retrieving
records from the @code{soa} table (@pxref{soa table}).

@item rr-where
@i{(string)}  An additional SQL @samp{WHERE} clause to use when retrieving
records from the @code{rr} table (@pxref{rr table}).

@item recursive
@i{(string)}  Forward recursive requests to a DNS server at this address
and return its response to the client.


@end table
