@c ***
@c ***	SERVER
@c ***
@node Server
@chapter Server
@cindex server
@cindex mydns (program)

@menu
* Caching::         The internal cache speeds things up.
* Signals::         How MyDNS reacts to certain signals.
* TCP support::     DNS over TCP.
* Zone transfers::  DNS-based zone transfers.
* DNS UPDATE::      Dynamic DNS updates.
* Round robin::     Multiple address records for the same host.
* Load balancing::  Like round robin, but more advanced.
* Logging queries:: How to log each query your server receives.
@end menu


@c ***
@c ***	THE CACHE
@c ***
@node Caching
@section Caching
@cindex cache
@cindex zone cache
@cindex reply cache
MyDNS uses a lightweight internal cache to speed up question resolution.
When the DNS server receives a question, it descends through each label
in the name, looking for the first label that has any associated
resource records (see @uref{http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1034.txt, RFC 1034}).

This means that a request for a name with lots of labels may require many database
queries, most of which are likely to return no rows.

MyDNS stores positive results in its zone cache.  The size of the zone cache is
determined by the @code{zone-cache-size} variable in @file{mydns.conf}.  The
zone-cache-size specifies the @i{number of entries} the zone cache
may contain at any given time.  If the zone-cache-size is set to zero, the
zone cache will be completely disabled, and the database will be queried every
time.  Typically, the bigger your cache, the better MyDNS will perform.  Large
sites may consider a cache around 32768 entries.  The default size is 8192
entries.

The @code{zone-cache-expire} variable in @file{mydns.conf} specifies the
number of seconds after which zone cache data expires.  Most installations
will want to set this value fairly low, maybe 60 seconds or so.  This
way, the DNS data being served by MyDNS will never be more than 60 seconds
behind what is actually stored in the database.  If your database changes
infrequently, set this value much higher.

If any RR stored in the zone data cache has a TTL that is shorter than the
value of @code{zone-cache-expire}, the cached data will expire when the TTL
expires.

Once a complete reply has been constructed for a specific request (for example,
@code{IN A foo.example.com.}), the completed reply will be stored in the
reply cache.  The size of the reply cache is determined by the @code{reply-cache-size}
variable in @file{mydns.conf}.  Entries in the reply cache expire after
@code{reply-cache-expire} seconds.

The reply cache is especially useful because if a match is found for a request
in the reply cache, MyDNS will not need to perform any database queries or even
very much internal computation in order to return the reply.

A good way to check your cache configuration is to send @code{SIGUSR2}
to your server:

@example
# kill -USR2 `cat /var/run/mydns.pid`
@end example

The server will then output its cache status.  For example

@example
mydns: zone cache 47% useful (31385 hits, 15894 misses),
       2143 collisions (5%), 100% full (8192 records),
       12711624 bytes, avg life 27 sec
mydns: reply cache 84% useful (55200 hits, 10718 misses),
       5707 collisions (14%), 100% full (8192 records),
       3357269 bytes, avg life 38 sec
@end example

This tells you that MyDNS has been able to find the answer to a question
in the reply cache (avoiding all database queries) 84 percent of the time,
and that the other 16 percent of the time, it was able to find the data
needed in the zone cache 47 percent of the time.

When tweaking your cache sizes, the best clue in this output is the "avg life".
This is the average amount of time an entry remains in the cache, between the
time it was first inserted and the time it was removed due to either expiration
or because it was removed to make room for other, more commonly-requested entries.

If your "avg life" is extremely short (just a second or two) you should consider
increasing your cache size.  Of course, if the average life is very short because
your zone data has extremely short TTL values, this is to be expected.

A very long @code{zone-cache-expire}/@code{reply-cache-expire} time means
that the results returned by MyDNS are more likely to be out-of-date,
especially if your database is constantly being updated.  Most DNS data
is not.


@c ***
@c ***	SIGNALS
@c ***
@node Signals
@section Signals
@cindex signals
@cindex SIGUSR1
@cindex SIGUSR2
@cindex SIGHUP
If you send @samp{SIGHUP} to MyDNS, it empties its cache.

MyDNS responds to @samp{SIGUSR1} by outputting some brief server statistics.

MyDNS responds to @samp{SIGUSR2} by outputting cache statistics.


@c ***
@c ***	TCP SUPPORT
@c ***
@node TCP support
@section TCP support
@cindex TCP
MyDNS will process all TCP requests it receives if the configuration option
@option{allow-tcp} is true.  This is not usually necessary or recommended.
TCP support will make the server run a little slower, and a
denial-of-service attack is easier if TCP is allowed.

Some very large sites may require TCP support, however.  If a response set
would exceed the UDP message size limit (512 bytes), MyDNS will set the
TC (truncated) flag on its answer.  Some clients will then fall back to TCP,
which can handle such large answers.  If TCP support is enabled, those
clients can get their responses.  Also, TCP support is required to perform
DNS-based zone transfers.



@c ***
@c ***	ZONE TRANSFERS
@c ***
@node Zone transfers
@section Zone transfers
@cindex transfers, zone
@cindex zone transfers
@cindex IXFR
@cindex AXFR
MyDNS will allow zone transfers (via AXFR) if the configuration option
@option{allow-axfr} is true.  This is recommended only if you have an
absolute need for DNS-based zone transfers, such as if your secondary
name server is running BIND.

MyDNS does @i{not} support incremental zone transfers (@code{IXFR}).

If you need to support DNS-based zone transfers,
you have to enable @option{allow-tcp}.  (This is not true for BIND 9.)

You can specify IP access rules for DNS-based zone transfers by using
an optional column called @samp{xfer} in the @code{soa} table.
@xref{soa.xfer}.


@c ***
@c ***	DNS UPDATE
@c ***
@node DNS UPDATE
@section DNS UPDATE
@cindex updates, dynamic
@cindex DNS UPDATE
@cindex RFC 2136
MyDNS will allow dynamic DNS updates (described in RFC 2136) if the configuration option
@option{allow-update} is true.

You can specify IP access rules for DNS UPDATE by using
an optional column called @samp{update_acl} in the @code{soa} table.
@xref{soa.update_acl}.

If the @samp{update_acl} column does not exist in the @code{soa} table, DNS UPDATE requests
will be allowed only from localhost.

In order for dynamic DNS updates to work, the @option{db-user} specified in the
MyDNS configuration file must have permissions to insert and update on the @code{rr} table.

If MyDNS receives multiple UPDATE requests in one packet, they must all complete
successfully, or the UPDATE must fail.  Therefore, your database must have transactional
capabilities if you enable DNS UPDATE.

For more information, see @uref{http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2136.txt, RFC 2136}.

@c ***
@c ***	ROUND ROBIN
@c ***
@node Round robin
@section Round robin
@cindex Round robin
If your @code{rr} table contains more than one address record for the same
name (but with different addresses, of course), MyDNS will serve them up
in a random order each time.

Round robin is used only if all the address records found have an @code{aux}
value of @samp{0}.  If any of the records have an @code{aux} value that is
non-zero, load balancing will be used instead.  (@xref{Load balancing}.)

Note that MyDNS will also return multiple same-preference MX records in
random order, to help equalize the load among same-preference MX hosts.


@c ***
@c ***	LOAD BALANCING
@c ***
@node Load balancing
@section Load balancing
@cindex Load balancing
@cindex aux
If your @code{rr} table contains more than one address record for the same
name, and one or more of the records has an @code{aux} value greater than
zero, MyDNS will weight its response using the value in @code{aux}.

MyDNS uses the value in @code{aux} to determine the order in which addresses
are listed.  Clients usually start with the first address and work their way
down, so addresses that are usually listed first will bear the heaviest
client load.

A low value in @code{aux} makes an address record more likely to be listed
first.  The balancing algorithm causes servers with a lower @code{aux} to be
selected more frequently than those with higher values, although all servers
will still be listed first occasionally, as the algorithm is partially random.

Records where @code{aux} is 0 (zero) will be listed first almost every time.
Records where @code{aux} is 50,000 or greater will always be listed last.

Here's an example of how hosts were distributed on a 100,000 query test
against ten hosts with aux values 10-100.  The number shown is the number of
times that host was listed first:

@example
aux 10   51,211
aux 20   21,881
aux 30   10.983
aux 40    6,209
aux 50    3,661
aux 60    2,311
aux 70    1,526
aux 80    1,032
aux 90      675
aux 100     511
@end example


@c ***
@c ***	LOGGING QUERIES
@c ***
@node Logging queries
@section Logging queries
@cindex Logging queries
If MyDNS is started with the @code{--verbose} (@code{-v}) option, each
query the server receives will be output via the logging mechanism specified
in your configuration file (@pxref{Misc options}).

Each log line consists of the program name (and possibly the PID) followed by a colon,
then seventeen fields separated by spaces.  For example:

@example
mydns: 25-Jul-2003 01:50:11+659583 #1 3987 UDP 192.168.1.1 IN ANY
	bboy.net. NOERROR - 1 11 0 5 LOG Y QUERY
@end example

or

@example
mydns: 25-Jul-2003 01:50:44+720684 #2 33848 UDP 192.168.1.1 IN ANY
	bogus.example.com. NXDOMAIN No_matching_resource_records 1 0 1 0 LOG N QUERY
@end example

In order, here's what these fields mean:

@enumerate
@item
The date the query was received.

@item
The time the query was received, then a plus sign (@samp{+}), then the number
of microseconds after the second the query was received.

@item
A pound sign (@samp{#}) followed by the server's internal ID number for this
query.  The internal ID numbers begin at 0 and advance sequentially.

@item
The query ID provided by the client.  This is usually a seemingly-random 16-bit
number used by the client to make sure the answer it receives matches the question
it asked.

@item
The transport used, always either @code{TCP} or @code{UDP}.

@item
The client IP address, in dotted-decimal notation.

@item
The query class, always @code{IN}.

@item
The query type, such as @code{A}, @code{MX}, @code{NS}, etc. (@pxref{Supported RR types}).

@item
The name being requested.

@item
The result of the query.  The following values are possible:
@table @var
@item NOERROR
No error; the query was successful.

@item FORMERR
The server was unable to interpret the query.

@item SERVFAIL
MyDNS experienced an internal error, usually the result of some malformed data in the database.

@item NXDOMAIN
No resource records (of any type) exist matching the domain name requested.

@item NOTIMP
The requested type of query is not implemented.

@item REFUSED
The query was refused due to server policy.  This usually happens because the client attempted
to @code{AXFR} a zone that they were not allowed to transfer, or because the client requested
a name within a zone for which the server is not authoritative.
@end table

@item
If the previous field was anything but @code{NOERROR}, this is a human-readable reason
why the query failed, with any space characters in the string converted into underscore (@samp{_})
characters.  If the previous field was @code{NOERROR}, this field contains a dash (@samp{-}).

@item
The number of resource records included in the @i{question} section of the reply.

@item
The number of resource records included in the @i{answer} section of the reply.

@item
The number of resource records included in the @i{authority} section of the reply.

@item
The number of resource records included in the @i{additional} section of the reply.

@item
The word @code{LOG}.

@item
The character @samp{Y} if this was a cached reply, @samp{N} if it was not.

@item
The opcode for this query -- @samp{QUERY} or @samp{UPDATE}.

@item
If the previous field was @samp{UPDATE}, this is a description of the update performed,
enclosed in quotation marks.  For example, this field might contain
@samp{"test-a.example.com. 3600 IN A 0 1.2.3.4"}, indicating that for the zone specified,
an @code{A} record was created for @code{test-a.example.com.} with the value @code{1.2.3.4}.


@end enumerate

There is a script in the @code{contrib/} directory of the source distribution called
@code{stats.php} that provides an example of how a script might read and parse these lines,
in case you wanted to accumulate usage information or something.
