@c ***
@c ***	INSTALLATION
@c ***
@node Installation
@chapter Installation
@cindex installation
@menu
* Compiling the source::  How to use configure, build, and install from source.
* Creating the database:: How to create the @samp{mydns} database.
* Creating the tables::   How to create the tables in the @samp{mydns} database.
* Database access::       How to create a user for the server and grant it access.
* Creating mydns.conf::   How to create a template for your @file{mydns.conf} file.
@end menu



@c ***
@c ***	Compiling the source
@c ***
@node Compiling the source
@section Compiling the source
@cindex configure script

First, uncompress and unpack the distribution to a location of your choosing.
The distribution will be extracted into a directory named @file{mydns-@value{VERSION}}.

Change directory into the distribution directory, then run the @command{configure}
script to configure the package for your system.

The @file{INSTALL} file has full details on how the @command{configure} script works.  Run
@command{configure --help} to output a summary of all options.

You'll probably be able to simply run the @command{configure} command with no additional arguments.

@example
$ ./configure
@end example

If you have both MySQL and PostgreSQL installed on your system, MyDNS chooses MySQL by
default.  To tell MyDNS to use PostgreSQL instead of MySQL, run @command{configure --without-mysql}.

After the configuration process is complete, build the package.

@example
$ make
@end example

Then, if the build completed successfully, install the package.

@example
# make install
@end example

The @file{mydns} binary should now be installed in the @file{sbin} dir beneath
the @option{prefix} provided to the @command{configure} script, if any.

By default, @file{mydns} is installed as @file{/usr/local/sbin/mydns}.




@c ***
@c ***	Creating the database
@c ***
@node Creating the database
@section Creating the database
@cindex database, creating


Now that you have installed MyDNS, you'll need to set up a database and access permissions.

To create a database called @samp{mydns} on your database server:

@i{MySQL:}
@example
$ mysqladmin -h @i{host} -u @i{username} -p create mydns
@end example

@i{PostgreSQL:}
@example
$ createdb mydns
@end example





@c ***
@c ***	Creating the tables
@c ***
@node Creating the tables
@section Creating the tables
@cindex tables, creating

Next, create the tables in your database that will hold the DNS data.

Running @command{mydns --create-tables} will cause MyDNS to output
@code{CREATE TABLE} statements appropriate for your database.

@i{MySQL:}
@example
$ mydns --create-tables | mysql -h @i{host} -u @i{username} -p mydns
@end example

@i{PostgreSQL:}
@example
$ mydns --create-tables | psql mydns
@end example


After you have created the tables, you should have two tables in your
@samp{mydns} database, called @samp{soa} (@pxref{soa table}) and
@samp{rr} (@pxref{rr table}).



@c ***
@c ***	Database access
@c ***
@node Database access
@section Database access
@cindex database, access
Next, create a user that the MyDNS server can use to access the @samp{mydns} database:

@i{MySQL:}
@example
$ mysql -h @i{host} -u @i{username} -p mydns
mysql> GRANT SELECT ON mydns.* TO @i{user}@@localhost IDENTIFIED BY '@i{password}';
@end example

@i{PostgreSQL:}
@example
$ psql mydns
mydns=# CREATE USER @i{user} WITH PASSWORD '@i{password}';
mydns=# GRANT SELECT ON soa,soa_id_seq TO @i{user};
mydns=# GRANT SELECT ON rr,rr_id_seq TO @i{user};
@end example




@c ***
@c ***	Creating mydns.conf
@c ***
@node Creating mydns.conf
@section Creating @file{mydns.conf}
@cindex mydns.conf

MyDNS probably won't start properly if it can't find its configuration file.  By default,
the configuration file is called @file{/etc/mydns.conf}.

Running @command{mydns --dump-config} will output a set of configuration
options suitable for using as your configuration file.  @xref{Configuration}.

So, for a fresh installation, this command will create your initial configuration
file:

@example
# mydns --dump-config > /etc/mydns.conf
@end example

You should now edit your @file{mydns.conf} file.  Most defaults should be fine for most sites.

The values you are most likely to want to modify are the values for @samp{db-host} and @samp{db-user},
which should contain the database username and password that you created at the end of step 2.4.
@xref{Database access}.
